We saw a double equals which is going to check for equality of value but it ignores type triple equals
cares both about value and type.
So it's three equal signs in a row.
And again it cares about the type and value it's not going to try and coerce the values to be of a common
type.
So if we have something like two triple equals the string two that's going to be false versus double
equals is true.
We also saw an example where we had zero double equals false that is true triple equals is false.
So it is stricter hence the term or the name.
Strict equality operator all of those examples that we saw with double equals that we're kind of wonky
like undefined W equals no which is true if we do it with triple equals.
They are not the same type.
So it doesn't matter.
It's false but if we do something that definitely is true three equals three or no triple equals no
that's true.
And so on.
So triple equals is more precise or more specific it cares about type and generally that's what you
want.
If you were using double equals you could get some weird behavior if you're trying to check if a certain
value is exactly false and instead the value is zero.
This could lead to some unexpected decisions or results.
So generally we stick to triple equals.
It's more specific it's more precise type usually matters.
If we had some variable called is logged in and it's set to false and we wanted to check is logged in
equal to False.
This works like we want to make sure nobody is logged in so we're checking is logged in set to false.
But if somebody somehow set it to 0 for example and we ran that line again is logged in double equals
false.
It's still saying true but it's not actually false.
If we instead use triple equals we avoid that entirely.
So in general ninety nine point nine nine nine nine nine percent of the time what you want is triple
equals.
And in this course you will be using triple equals for everything.
It's really rare that you need double equals.
There are people who will say never ever use double equals.
I think it's a good rule of thumb if you're brand new to JavaScript.
I certainly haven't used it in the last year or so at least.
But it is something you might see sometimes in certain edge cases and scenarios and beating a dead horse
here.
So just remember triple equals not double.
And let's wrap up here by talking about non equality.
So just like we have two ways of checking if something is equal to another thing we have two ways of
checking if two values are not equal.
We have non equality just the plain old non equality.
This is the analogue or that cousin of double equals.
And then we have strict non equality which is the cousin of triple equals.
So if we do something like 1 is not equal to 2 we get true.
That makes sense one is not 2 if we keep using the one equal sine version we could also do this one
is not equal to one but that gives us false because we're using a single equal sign which is like the
double equals that doesn't care about type.
So we end up with false because they're converted to the same type.
And it's essentially checking is one not equal to one and that's false.
If we instead use this version where we have two equal signs we end up with one strict non equality
string one and that is true.
So for the same reason that I said you should always use triple equals you should almost always use
this version of non equality to equal signs.
So we've now covered all of the comparison operators.
We need to talk about we saw greater than less than.
And then also greater than or equal to less than or equal to.
And then in terms of the equality operators just go with the bottom to here to check if things are equal
use triple equals to check if things are not equal.
Use this version where we have one exclamation point and two equal signs those two circle them remember
them and ignore these two.
I need to show them to you but ignore them.